Welcome back.
How was the remove method?
It was pretty tough, wasn't it?
Now, I don't expect you to be able to get this.
Even for me, it took quite a lot of time to get this working.
And I'm going to give you another chance to finish it if you want.
I have my code minimized here just to show you the if statements and the steps that I'm taking.
So you could always pause this video.
But let me just go over the steps I'm going to take.
And usually I like coding step by step, but when it comes to this function, it's really, really hard
to go step by step when you're not coding yourself or you don't have a diagram to point to and show.
So I'm going to leave the code for you so you can implement it on your own.
And actually, like I always recommend, draw it out with a piece of paper to understand what's going
on.
Otherwise, if I just coded this along, it would be a 30 minute video of you getting bored and then
you're not going to have fun with data structures anymore.
And we don't want that.
So all we're doing is, well, if we remove, we're going to check if there's anything in the root.
If there isn't.
Well, the trees empty.
There's nothing to remove.
We're going to return.
False.
Otherwise we're going to grab the current node as this route first and then we do something new here
that we haven't seen before.
We declare a new variable called Parent Node, and this is something you may have realized as you coded
this along.
We need a reference to the parent because if we remove something from here such as 14, well, we need
to before we get to one, get a reference of 14 so that when we get to one, we have access to 30 so
that we can link 30 to 1.
So if we go back here now that I have paranoid variable and I do my loop to check if the value is less
than the current node, in which case I'll go left.
And this should be familiar, but this time I'm also keeping track of the parent node.
And otherwise, if we need to go to the right, well, then we go to the right, but also keep track
of the parent node.
Now, this is the interesting part.
We're looping through everything here, and nothing's too crazy until we get to a match.
Once we get to a match and we find the current node that we want to delete.
We have a match, we need to get to work.
And we have three options here.
The first option is that the current node has no right child.
If the current node has no right child.
Let's have 55 as an example or let's do 14 as an example.
If I remove 14.
You saw that?
All we did was we remove 14, but we kept a reference to the parent node and just moved one up.
That was a nice and easy.
And in here with option one, that's really all we do.
We first make sure that the parent node.
Doesn't equal to no.
That means we're modifying the root node.
Otherwise, the root valuable variable gets updated to our current node.
Otherwise, if parent is greater than the current value.
Then make current left child a child or the parent.
If parent is less than the current value, make left child or right child of the parent.
Again, I know this is confusing and like I said, this is something that you might have to go on your
own.
I'll leave comments out here for you so you can actually play around with it and play around with visual.
Go so you understand what's happening.
So that's the first option.
If that's the case, then do that.
If the right child if we have a right child.
But that right child doesn't have a left child.
Let's find an example that has a so we have a right child that doesn't have a left child.
So that is 54.
What happens when we remove 54?
If I click on this.
54.
Gets removed.
And we just place 55 instead of 54 now.
So in that case we go again check of the parent node is non null so that we have to replace the root
node.
Otherwise we go through similar steps to reassign the node.
What about the last option?
Right.
Child that has a left child.
So if we go here, we have a right child.
Let's say if we want to delete 30, that has a left child, 38.
So if we want to delete 30.
And hit go.
We still traverse until we get to the left.
And then, oh, boy, we do a bit of a magic.
This.
We'll require you to read through the code and I've left some nice comments for you so that it makes
sense.
But we're essentially finding the right child's leftmost child and looping through this, changing the
sub trees of the tree.
Like I said, this is quite a bit advanced and really hard to explain just on the screen.
So I do recommend if you weren't able to get the remove function to go through this step by step.
I'll link to the code right in the resources so you can play around with this and see that it works.
But to check that remove does in fact work.
Let's say I'll remove zero from this list.
If I click run I get undefined because there's nothing to remove.
But if I remove, let's say 170 and I click run.
I get true.
And if I.
Traverse our list and try and grab our tree now.
Let's open up developer tools.
Pace this press center.
And now if we go to nine.
20.
And we see that the right node is now empty where 170 should have been.
So we're able to delete the node successfully.
That's enough for now.
You can play around with the remove method if you want.
You can try and code it yourself.
It will take a bit of time.
I know I keep saying this.
I do encourage you not to get disappointed if the remove method was really difficult.
I didn't really want to include it in the course because it is overly complex and not something you
want to get too worried about when it comes to an interview.
But I thought some of you might be interested in it.
Just make sure that it's not something that discourages you as long as you can do the inserts and lookups.
That's what matters for interviews in the next one.
Bye bye.